Well it's the end of this section of the course.
And you know what that means.
Another bug hunt.
So if you haven't already you should go through this script and basically what I recommend doing is
running each cell and finding the errors and then fixing them.
And then you have to keep in mind that some of the errors are coding errors and some errors in this
script are actually not problems with the code.
There are problems with math or with plotting or something else.
All right.
So now I'm going to start going through this script.
Each cell at a time.
All right.
So here it looks like we are creating a list and then printing out the list.
And we get an error that says invalid syntax.
Now actually this one's fairly easy to debug.
A list has to be separated by commas like this.
All right.
That was pretty straightforward.
Let's see and add all the numbers together.
So we have num PI that adds I know already this is going to crash because I haven't imported num pi
yet.
And I like to do that at the top of the script.
So I'm going to click on the Insert menu option insert cell above and here import known pi as an P..
All right.
So now let's see hot invalid number of arguments.
Well maybe the problem is with this add function because you might remember that typically we use the
sum function but this is at.
So let me get the help message for here and and see what this function is all about.
So add x1 x2.
So these are actually both required inputs.
There's two required inputs x1 and x2.
And this says add arguments element twice.
So in fact num PI that ADD is what you would do if you have let's say two vectors or two matrices and
you want to add them together element by element the function we want here is some and then we can actually
do a quick confirmation.
So four plus six is 10 plus one and one in three is five.
So that makes 15.
All right.
So here we want to plot the cumulative sum of a list of numbers.
Oh and there's plenty.
So before even running that code I'm going to import import mat plot lib dot pie plot as P L T.
All right.
So now let's see what we get.
Okay.
So the goal here was to plot the cumulative sum of a list of numbers.
So this is the list of numbers now accumulative sum should be as long as the list as the array of numbers
but we're only just getting one number here.
So let's see what's going on.
This this is supposed to be the function QM sum for a cumulative sum.
Mm hmm.
So we still just get one number.
What is going on here huh.
Look at this this looks like a typo.
The list is the letter L but here we have the number one.
All right.
Pretty tricky.
OK.
So this is the right answer.
It's interesting that it curves down and then curves back up.
And that's because we start with negative numbers as we sum together the first couple of numbers they
get more and more negative and then we start getting up to positive numbers here.
Oh right.
So now let's see what we're gonna do here.
So here we have an equation.
Actually this isn't really an equation it's a polynomial.
Let's make it an equation by setting it equal to zero.
So for minus two x plus five times x cubed equals zero.
And actually we don't really care about this.
We just care about this.
So here are the coefficients for four minus two minus two five and five.
So that seems correct.
And now we want to solve for the roots of this expression.
So setting this polynomial equal to zero and then it looks like we're doing something with simple and
display and math.
So neither of these are imported yet.
So let's go back here and say import simple pie as Sim and from I python.
Display import display and math.
Oh right.
So now maybe this will run OK so looking at this polynomial which uses these coefficients and the symbolic
variable X this doesn't actually map onto this.
The numbers are the same but for a polynomial it's not that coefficients that's so important.
It's the coefficients.
And they're pairing with the variables.
So this is totally totally wrong.
Okay.
So what is going on here.
Well what's going on here first is that we have to list the coefficients the other way.
So we have to put the largest order term first.
So it should be five and then minus two and then four.
However that is still not the right answer.
So it's getting closer.
So we have four on its own minus two X and minus two X..
However here we have five x cubed and here is five X squared.
So the problem here is that we need to account for all of the X terms.
So really implicitly there is zero times X squared in here.
So there is actually.
So there there needs to be four terms in here x to the zero x to the one X to the power of to an X to
the power of three.
The real coefficients need or the sort of true vertical coefficients need to have an extra zero in the
middle here.
And then we got the correct polynomial.
Okay.
And so looks like nothing is done with this roots variable.
I think that's just here to distract us.
So I'm going to ignore that.
All right.
Let's see.
So this is a function quad E.
So I think this is a function that solves the quadratic formula.
That's certainly what this looks like based on the three coefficients a b and c and then it returns
some output.
And then I guess here we are printing that output.
All right.
Let's see what happens here.
Mm hmm.
Okay.
So name SDP is not defined.
So first of all SMP was for PSI Pi.
And we're using that here to get a complex result from a square root of a negative number.
OK.
So let us import the CI pi module here.
So I will say import CI pi as S P.
And now let's go back down.
Here we are.
Okay.
So we still get an error.
It's not related to SMP anymore.
Now it says name out not defined.
And the issue here is that we use this variable out without defining.
So we're indexing into out without defining that variable first.
So there's two ways to solve this.
One is you could initialize the variable and I already showed you how to do that in a previous video.
So in fact I'm going to show you a different solution here an equally good solution in this case.
And that is to set these two to be separate output variables.
This was for the two roots of this polynomial and now what I'm going to return is a list of out 0 and
alt 1.
Okay.
And then we get our two results here.
Now I want to show you that using PSI Pi is not the only solution.
So we technically could solve this problem a different way.
Keeping with the known pi module and you will remember that the problem with using num pi dot square
root is that it doesn't allow for complex valued solutions.
So let's see for example what happens if I make C a bit higher.
Okay.
So then we get n n n n when really these two have valid solutions they're just complex valued.
Now we can get around this by saying these types of data type equals complex and then I will repeat
that here.
Data Type equals complex.
And now if I run this again we get complex results so that's fine.
However if I go back to setting this b to now you can see we're actually still getting complex value
results so this input is forcing the output to be complex even if the imaginary part is zero.
So on the one hand there's nothing really wrong with that.
However I kind of prefer the simplest solution where in this case the output is real valued.
And here it becomes complex valued when it needs to be all right.
Enough about that.
Let's move on to the next one.
Speaking of complex numbers now we get to work with complex numbers.
Let's see.
So create a complex number and then it looks like we are plotting that complex number.
OK.
So first of all we get a warning.
This says passing one of these values as a boolean is depreciated.
So this concerns this must concern plot grid.
And essentially saying plot that grid on or true was correct syntax in older versions of python.
However it is now depreciated.
And so this isn't really an error percentage but it is a warning.
And when you get a warning message that says something is depreciated then it's a good idea to fix it
because it means that this sort of thing actually could produce an error.
It could cause Python to crash at some point in the future.
OK.
So now we don't get any errors.
Let's see.
So the real part is for the imaginary part is minus six.
So Hunt the real part is for you.
So actually this dot should be around here somewhere.
So why is the real why is the dot over here.
Well if we look at this actually we are inputting the imaginary part and then the real part into num
pi dot complex.
So let's see.
We need to put the real part in first and then the imaginary part.
It can get confusing to remember all of the orders of inputs in every function.
And in general I really don't recommend trying to memorize all sorts of things.
Now in this case I think the order of inputs is fairly easy to remember because when you're writing
out a complex number you always write it out.
The real part and then plus or minus the imaginary part.
But there's also nothing wrong with checking the health Doc and this tells you that you check that you
input the real part first and then the imaginary part.
All right.
So now let's see.
OK.
This looks good.
The real part is for the imaginary part is minus six.
So here's four.
And here is minus six.
All right.
So here it looks like we're trying to create a symbolic complex number.
Now I've already imported this simple module so that should be good.
And let's see.
All right.
So the imaginary operator in simple is not dot 1 J.
It is dot I like this.
All right.
Now let's see OK so here we get it sort of funny looking out but let's see.
So this is Z.
This complex no z times it's conjugate equals so a whole bunch of stuff and you might remember from
the video on complex multiplication and the conjugate that the conjugate can be indicated either using
an asterisk or using a line a bar over the complex number.
But this doesn't really look like what I expect.
I expect this to say a squared plus B squared.
And actually what's happening is that what we need to do is force a and b to be real numbers.
But someone wrote really equals true.
OK.
So I don't know if that's supposed to be a joke or if that was a honest typo but it should be real.
Equals true.
Aha.
And now we get this nice feature of complex multiplication that a complex number of times it's conjugate
equals the real part squared plus the imaginary part squared.
All right very good.
Let's see what we're trying to do here.
So it's something about phase angles and then generating a plot and a vector from the origin.
Let's just try to run this code and see what happens.
Well there aren't any explicit errors so there's nothing really wrong with the code per say.
Let's see if maybe there's something wrong with the vector.
So let's see.
This should be a phase angle of pi over four which is exactly what this looks like.
So this would be an angle of Pi sticking over this way.
This would be pi over to.
So this is pi over four and let's see.
This should be the coast.
Huh.
Okay.
So actually this is the cosine axis.
And this is the sine axis.
And you can see that as well when you're looking at this plot.
So we're always plotting cosine and then sine cosine sine cosine sine and so therefore the labels are
actually incorrect.
This is the.
So the X axis is for cosine the y axis is for sine.
All right.
That one was a little tricky.
Let's see what's going on here.
It looks like we are generating log space and linearly space numbers between two and a hundred and there
should be three of them.
And and then they get plotted okay.
So immediately looking at the plot I see that the legends are wrong.
This is not linear.
And this is not log this part is correct.
So we have log and log linear linear but here in the legend function.
Then I write linear and log and this order is going to override these orders here.
So I'm just going to delete that here.
Okay so this looks better but you know this says N equals three number of steps.
There's clearly not three steps.
There's a lot more than three here.
So let's see what's going on.
Okay so what's going on here is that normally I've been showing you to use the functions Lynn space
and log space with three inputs.
So the the lower bound the upper bound and the number of steps between the two bounds.
But here I haven't inputted any third input.
So now I'm gonna look at the help desk for this and this says num equals 50.
Okay.
So the default value if you don't provide a third input is 50 steps.
All right.
So this has to be comma and and also comma n here.
Looking better let's see.
So the goal is to plot the point on the function closest to f of x equals point five.
That's a pretty interesting objective.
And it's also a pretty neat function to look at.
This is called a sigmoid by the way let me write this down I'll make a title.
So this is called a peel t the title sigmoid function.
In fact this is a reverse sigmoid function.
The normal sigmoid function starts at zero and then it goes up smoothly and then it goes to 1.
So you can see looking at the Y axis that there is some value of this sigmoid function that is really
close to point 5.
And it seems like this red dot is on point five but it's certainly not on the function itself.
So let's first see how I solve this.
So it looks like we're typing ARG min and then the function minus point five which is the value that
we're looking for.
And then a B.S. of that.
So actually before figuring out what is wrong with this plot I just want to show you very quickly why
this gives the right result.
So I'm going to start by plotting the function f of x and then I'm going to plot the function f of x
minus point five.
So you can see that that really just shifted this function and kept the function the same it just shifted
it down on the y axis.
And that actually changed what our objective is.
So now what we are looking for is the value and f of x that is as close as possible to zero.
Okay.
But that's not going to be the minimum the minimum is still gonna be down here.
So then we take the a B.S. of this.
So the absolute value and that function now looks like like a V because all of the negative parts have
been flipped up.
So now in fact what we are looking for is the minimum of this function and that's what argument is going
to return.
Okay.
So with that as a brief explanation let's see.
So I already see the problem here.
The problem is that we are just plotting the x axis location of f Max Ida X which is the index into
this expression where the minimum is found.
So we actually want X and then the index into X where the minimum is found.
All right.
So that's pretty interesting.
Now you've already learned something new which is how to identify not just the minimum of a function
but the point of a function that's closest to some particular value.
All right.
Here we go.
This is the last one.
The goal is to find local minima by adding 1 character and by character.
I don't mean a cartoon character like bugs bunny or anything else.
I mean just adding one keystroke with the keyboard.
Okay so here we see the local maxima identified but in fact what we want is the local minima.
So the secret here is actually just to flip the function and so I'm going to add a minus sign right
here and that's going to turn this function upside down.
And now all of the minima are identified.
Well actually not all of them you can see that this method isn't perfect because this was is not actually
identified as a minimum even though it is not only a local minimum it is in fact the global minimum
of this entire function in this domain.
So let me just quickly show you why this works.
So here I'm plotting F of X and now I'm gonna plot minus F of X and I mean turn this off actually.
Well now I'll leave that on all said this to B minus as well.
Okay.
So by flipping F of X around on the y axis then we are still looking for all of the Maxima but the Maxima
of a negative function are the minima of the positive function.
So now when we do the plotting that's with the original function but when we do the peak finding that's
with the negative of the function.
All right.
And so that completes this bug hunt.
I hope you enjoyed it.
I hope you found it fruitful and instructive and I hope you are really excited to get to the next section
of the course.
I'm also pretty excited to start recording it.